From: <Tiwari>, Devesh <tiwari@ornl.gov>
Date: Thursday, July 2, 2015 at 1:59 PM
To: Todd Gamblin <tgamblin@llnl.gov>
Cc: "Legendre, Matthew P." <legendre1@llnl.gov>, "Moody, Adam T."
<moody20@llnl.gov>, "de Supinski, Bronis R." <desupinski1@llnl.gov>,
Scott Futral <futral2@llnl.gov>, "Lee, Greg" <lee218@llnl.gov>
Subject: Re: SC15 paper 264 shepherding

All,

First of all, Congratulations! Thank you for sharing such an exciting
and useful paper with the community. We had a very interesting
discussion surrounding this paper.

Please address the three listed items and other things that you have
promised in your rebuttal comments.

- Regarding the overhead issue:

  Please attempt to provide quantification of the overhead wherever
  possible. This can be storage or runtime overhead. Even if it's
  negligible, please report the absolute numbers and preferably, put
  the numbers in context (by comparing it to other competitive tools,
  overall application runtime etc.). From your rebuttal response, I
  can readily see multiple places where you could report such
  numbers. Some examples include, but not limited to, disk space
  overhead, compiler wrapper overhead, how the complexity of
  concretization step increases with increase in dependency
  complexity, effect of fast/slow filesystem for the build process,
  overall memory requirements etc.

- Regarding the benefits issue:

  Please provide more concrete examples about how Spack has impacted
  different applications. The PC was particularly interested in seeing
  more evidences within and beyond LLNL. Mike's case may be an
  interesting one to add. In general, it would be better to provide
  more concrete examples using more complex applications. How much
  effort was required? What changes were made? Why was it hard to do
  so for that particular application? Whenever possible, please
  provide code snippets and quantitative evidence.

- Regarding the author list:

  COI is indeed one of the major issues that prevents addition of new
  authors after acceptance. As per your description, Mike's addition
  doesn't create new COI that could have affected the evaluation of
  this paper. So, I am perfectly fine with his addition as an author
  (also, given his anticipated contribution as you have already said).
  I am of the view that contributors should be acknowledged
  appropriately. In this case, it seems like adding him to the author
  list seems like doing justice to his contribution. But,this is just
  my personal opinion and may not be fully justified/fair across the
  board given that I am not making this decision for every such
  request. So, it's better that you write to the PC Chairs and get
  their guidance on this issue.

Also, please use an appropriate tool to highlight the changes you will
be making. There are certain latex packages that can highlight the
changes easily. You can also use some other tool as long as it is
clear what changes were made and exactly where. I am asking this so
that I can justify the process to the PC chairs later. It will only
make the process more smooth and quicker.

I am available for chat/phone call to clarify any questions you may
have. My simple goal is to improve that quality of an already exciting
paper. Please let me know how could I help you. Once you have made the
edits, I can review them and provide feedback as soon as possible.

Thank you for submitting your good work to SC and Congratulations,
again!

ɶt


------------------------------------------------------------------------------
From: Todd Gamblin <tgamblin@llnl.gov>
Date: Thursday, July 2, 2015 at 12:01 AM
To: <Tiwari>, Devesh <tiwari@ornl.gov>
Cc: "Legendre, Matthew P." <legendre1@llnl.gov>, "Moody, Adam T."
<moody20@llnl.gov>, "de Supinski, Bronis R." <desupinski1@llnl.gov>,
Scott Futral <futral2@llnl.gov>, "Lee, Greg" <lee218@llnl.gov>
Subject: SC15 paper 264 shepherding

Devesh,

Thanks for being a shepherd on our SC15 paper.  I'm touching base with
you to clarify the shepherding requirements.  The comments from the
committee list these three items:

  1. The paper should quantify the benefits and overheads of the tool.

  2. The paper should include more sophisticated use cases, such as
     complex applications being run at LLNL.

  3. The paper should more clearly list all the limitations and
     possible future extensions.

In general, we can add these.  However, I have several requests for
clarification:

  1. We would like to add another author to the paper.  One of our
     application developers, Mike Collette, has put a lot of effort
     into automating his build for one of our largest codes, and I
     think he should be included as an author if we write about his
     use case.  Is this all right with you?  I do not believe he is
     conflicted with anyone on the SC committee aside from LLNL staff,
     so there should be no issue of conflicts between him and the
     reviewers.

  2. We are not sure what types of benefits you would like to see
     quantified.  The use case I mentioned above would help with this,
     as Mike spent 2 months using Spack, roughly half-time, and he was
     able to build his code and 70 dependencies in 4 configurations on
     3 machines.  With the prior system, he was only able to build 43
     of these on a single architecture, with 2 years' effort, also
     roughly half-time.  Is this the sort of quantification you are
     looking for?  Or do you want something else?

  3. We are not sure what types of overheads you would like to see
     quantified.  Can you elaborate on this?  Spack's commands run at
     interactive speeds.  The builds themselves run at the same speed
     as they do without spack, which is not particularly interesting.
     Is there something else you want us to plot?

Best regards,
-Todd Gamblin
